---
layout: post
title:  "My tools"
date:   2015-05-22 22:13:00
categories: tools
---

In this post I will just try to list the tools I use when working or for doing
private things. I am a huge fan of **linux** and I am using it since 2004. My
actual distribution is [**archlinux**](https://www.archlinux.org/).

I use my terminal and command line like 80 percent of the time. Since a couple
of weeks I have started using
[**termite**](https://github.com/thestinger/termite). I use **awesome** window
manager to automatically tile my windows.

I am mainly writing papers, notes, coding and for that I am using
[**vim**](www.vim.org) as my editor. I use vim with a bunch of plugins to make my
editing life easier.

I fall in love with versionning system and I am now using **git** for everything,
at least I try. I have create some accounts on all possible free (or not) online
hosting plateforms.

I also use some basic tools such as : **firefox** as a navigator (with adblock
plus), **zathura** as my pdf reader, **mpv** to play multimedia, **mutt** to read mails,
**latex** to create some documents and sometime **libreoffice** just to be able to read
some documents sent by my colleagues. I also have **transmission** installed on
my system for bittorrent download and **skype** for chatting with my family.

I am sharing my office with some colleagues and sometimes I really need to
concentrate. I have a Bose headphones with noise cancelation capabilities. Most
of the time, I am not listening music but white, grey or pink noise.

I am not a big fan of apple but I use an apple qwerty keyboard. My hardware
configuration is not important except may be that I use two screens. I usually
rotate one of them from landscape to portrait for pdf reading.
